I am recording this at the absolute
worst time of day in terms of natural
lighting the Sun is just setting setting
slowly in the West outside my window so
hope my coloring is gonna change from
the minute they're gonna be deep craggy
shadows on my face and all the rest of
it but this is what I want to record
this video so let's roll that hopefully
ain't none of you here for the quality
of the lighting shut it - Road
microphone I hope you guys are
appreciating the better quality of the
sound and my new camera new video video
quality should improve I think as early
as tomorrow alright I got a question
from tiny polka dot tiny polka dot
writes in and asks for how long have you
been vegan question mark it's off topic
for the video which posted the question
but that's okay and what made you go
vegan she then goes on to say I'm very
sorry if this is the wrong place to ask
this or if you've already answered this
question fairly often so wow I have
answered the question before but it's I
think it's about four years ago on this
channel about four years ago I answered
this question the last time so it has
been a while and today I think I can
maybe answer it from a little bit more
of a meaning form profound perspective
especially given the subject matter
that's been covered in my most recent
series of videos I think I can I can use
that as a bridge and approach this from
from a different angle from what people
have already heard before um I'm sorry
if you if you get tired of hearing it
she that says PS I wanted to say that I
like the way you look at things in a
very philosophical meaningful way you
come up with very good arguments and I
think as a minor without much life
experience most people in general can
learn a lot from them so thanks I
appreciate the compliment and I do get
feedback from different people at all
different stages of life you know
teenagers through retirement about the
ways in which my channel has influenced
their lives sometimes influences their
use of language especially if English is
their second language but I remember one
longtime viewer my channel he'd seen
every single video on my channel up to
that point so we'd seen hundreds of
videos even though English was his first
language and the only language he spoke
he said he kept a list of the new words
the new vocabulary
he learnt he learned from my channel so
a different way of talking about
problems a different way of solving
problems
a different kind of practical philosophy
I know that's what a lot of people get
exposed to on this channel and my
girlfriend my current real-life
girlfriend said to me many times that
before she met me in person you know my
youtube channel was really this one
window on to you know what would life be
like if we were to take things seriously
it's really easy to grow up in
circumstances where you know all the
people around you act like everything is
a joke everything's to be scoffed at
it's like wait wait wait well you know
how would we live our lives if we if we
took these problems seriously if we if
we really let ourselves worry and and
and live in a more earnest and concerned
manner so I know my my channel meant a
lot to her and raised her political
philosophical personal and ethical
questions that she thought about alone
but it never had anyone to talk to about
him in terms of her friends and family I
think a lot of us are in that situation
that's that's that's the marvelous
glittering window that the internet
opens on to the world for so many of us
and of course if you look around at the
way people actually use the Internet
well there's there's a darker side to
the use most people put it to okay so
let's let's actually answer this
question how and why did I become vegan
what made me go vegan so recent videos
have talked about the fact that I really
did have a very peculiar childhood and
this is partly of course my parents
fault and it's partly the way I
responded to it you know the inferences
I made the conclusions I drew and the
next steps I took in terms of my own
moral reasoning I suppose so it's
worthwhile to mention my father had nine
children and probably none of them I
think I could say that safely none of
them really took the family religion as
seriously as I did and then none of them
also were disillusioned as seriously as
I was and the family religion as I've
mentioned was communism not modern
communism not socialism extreme hardcore
communism my parents were the types of
Communists who actively and openly said
that Mao Zedong slaughtering 1 million
people in Tibet was a good thing they
would also say that slaughtering 1
million people was nothing that this was
only a drop of blood in a bucket
compared to the progress of communism
and this sort of thing so these were
people who justified mass murder all
around the world
there were other peculiarities in terms
of their particular version of communism
but when many other videos have talked
about basically what a negative opinion
I have of communism is a philosophy it
is very easy for me to see that
communism did give me although communism
as an economic doctrine collapsed and
became worthless to me
communism is a social and political
philosophy collapsed and became
worthless me even communism as a
critique of capitalism I soon enough at
debunked as you know I made Pro as I
became more mature and more intelligent
myself growing up so you might think
there was absolutely nothing politics
came into communism well two things one
of which I've mentioned recently one of
which I haven't one of the most
fundamental things that comes at a
growing up communist is the general
awareness that philosophy can change the
world communism especially communism was
taught to children teaches you to think
that one man can write a pamphlet with
some new ideas and that results in the
collapse of civilizations and the rise
of new empires and millions of people
dying and tens of thousands of people
all over the world intellectuals and
what-have-you debating and researching
those ideas and the progress of science
taking on a new direction and so on and
so forth
and I mean to some extent a a child who
grew up in a family really fascinated
with the history and philosophy of
science might have that feeling I think
that's quite rare I think it's quite
rare to grow up in a family that really
teaches you to revere an historical
figure like Copernicus or Galileo or
even Sir Isaac Newton but
probably a few do the difference is of
course Karl Marx didn't discover
anything and even for a child if you
pick up and read the Communist Manifesto
by Karl Marx if you pick up and read
something written by Lenin or Stalin
there is indeed nothing impressive about
it there's nothing that makes you there
is nothing about that type of book that
makes you think I could never write
something like this myself and by
contrast if you as a child read about
the discovery of insulin almost any
advanced scientific discovery it's very
easy to feel this is something I could
never do myself new breakthroughs in
theoretical physics putting a man on the
moon it's very easy to feel daunted and
set back but on the contrary most of
what you see in communist philosophy is
really just complaining I mean you know
it's it's so simple a child can relate
to it a child can understand it a child
can even look at it and say hey I could
do better a child can look at it and say
oh the basic concept here is that the
poor are too poor why are they too poor
while they blame the rich they blame the
landlords they blame the people who
owned the farms who aren't paying the
farmers enough really it's about that
simple is not a lot of math in des
Capital written by Karl Marx that's
gonna take your breath away so you you
get the sense that in generation of
generation people basically stand
someone stands up and takes a moral
stand makes a moral commitment start
publishing it starts publishing new
ideas and then the outcome is a
revolution a struggle for a social
change so that was a value that was
encoded into me basically from birth and
indeed it was gonna make a separate
video with us it was even in the name
that I was given by my parents a name
that I rejected along with communism my
name was a coded reference to revolution
I think in in a video in the near future
I'm gonna talk a little bit about that
the name I had the name I rejected how
that was linked to their peculiar form
of communist revolutionary ideology so
this very much what it was raised with
but in its most general form this
already arms
child with the notion of the Assumption
ideas change the world
even that ideas are dangerous may I
remember my mother would be nervous when
I was reading the communist manifesto
something written by Lenin something
written by Stalin or Karl Marx there was
this sense that these books contain
power and the type of power of course
historically I mean unlike the belief in
a magical power in the Bible or a
religious text in a sense they knew what
that power was because the power was
just that people killed each other over
these ideas there was just the
body-count that was attached to this
this philosophy so the second idea which
I talked about briefly in an earlier
video this week the other idea is just
the level of personal commitment and
sacrifice expected of you expected of me
and that I expected myself in order to
make the world a better place so this
was within the Communist philosophy but
of course it could be applied to to
other things you know what does Moses do
to free the slaves
what does Martin Luther King jr. do to
you know improve the situation for black
people in America there are all kinds of
non-communist figures and exemplars
around you that once you're raised
communists once that's your frame of
reference for the world that one's if
their religion you're born into you can
then interpret in much the same way so
in looking around the world that way and
growing up again it was not
extraordinary or difficult for me to
imagine that I myself would one day be
living in the jungle or living in a cave
or living in a desert with nothing but
an ak-47 you know fighting and surviving
in the kind of terrible conditions that
various revolutionary leaders had lived
in it at various times in history so
during my childhood one of the big
political struggles that was in the news
was the fate of South Africa and I can
remember being a small child and
speaking with complete disgust about
white people in South Africa who didn't
simply take up arms against their own
government who didn't simply join or
lead a revolution that it was completely
clear this was in terms of the
psychology and
once this only happened once my parents
took me to a kind of dinner party so I
was a small child a miserable situation
I mean you shouldn't really take small
children to dinner parties where
middle-aged people are gonna chitchat
about politics unhappy it's not really
appropriate but anyway I was except I
was expected to sort of mope around in
silence while my parents hobnobbed with
some middle-aged people and there was a
couple there who had just arrived in
Canada from South Africa and of course
they presented their own story entirely
positively that they were allegedly
white people who sympathized with the
black liberation struggle didn't sound
like that I should have done anything
for it but that they were white people
who disliked the political conditions in
apartheid South Africa and they'd us run
over to Canada and I did not say this in
front of them but after we got to the
the car my mother said something
slightly positive about these people
that they were somehow heroic or
positive or sympathetic that they had
kind of resisted the regime in South
Africa and then run away to Canada and
again I was a child and I remember I
just said they're wimps and my mother
was shocked at this and my father smiled
I smile and you know my mother got quite
upset and there was a debate that
unfolded in the drive home in the car
but I just took the position that I've
been raised to believe I was applying it
to real world situations know when these
are your conditions you have to be
willing to endure extreme privation and
poverty live in a cave live in a hut
live in the jungle sleep whoever it is
sleep under a tarp in the desert why
would we expect anything less these
people and my mother and arguably
against me all she could say is well
these are middle-class people who were
accustomed to leaving a there were
customed to a comfortable middle-class
life and they felt they couldn't have
that in South Africa so they came here
to have that in in Canada instead and so
how could you possibly expect me to
sympathize with this when indeed as I
say everything about my my childhood
being raised was to look at almost the
definition of adulthood as being
preparation for war preparation for
revolution and preparation for civil war
and all the privations that entails so
by the same token when I was first
starting to read philosophy as a child I
would look at something like Buddhist
philosophy I remember very clearly my
first encounters in the Buddhist
philosophy long before I got serious
leaders didn't my first encounters with
sort of the philosophy of ancient Rome
and ancient Greece and the mean thing I
could relate to was the stoicism of it
and I don't really hear mean stoicism in
a in terms of the specific school of
philosophy but the broad tendency of the
the machismo the rejection of worldly
pleasures just this view that life was
about suffering and living in a state of
constant military preparedness a lot of
the ancient Greek nation room
philosophers are like that they had this
this martial spirit which is lacking in
modern philosophy and that basically the
pleasures of life are contemptible when
are something to be sneered at and that
really the indulgence of the senses is a
life that's just not worth living so you
see this across the board you know I can
remember reading one one epictetus I
think it was a philosopher who had
actually formerly been a slave and the
other hand I read a philosopher from
ancient Rome who was an emperor Marcus
Aurelius
but it seemed to me whether I was
reading the the philosophy of slaves or
Emperor's from those ancient
civilizations I was reading this kind of
world-weary philosophy that showed total
indifference towards both the indulgence
of the senses and this total commitment
to fighting for what's right at any
given time whether that's a slave
rebellion or frankly the emperor
persecuting Christians that were called
Marcus Aurelius did he put Christians to
death he had Christians fed to the Lions
and and all these other stereotypes both
about Roman emperors
that so be it that whatever it was that
was supposed to be right supposed to be
fought for that was what you lived in
preparation for so how could I possibly
feel any sympathy for these South
African immigrants or refugees who would
run away from you know the the struggle
of the oppressed against
the oppressors in their own country just
to live a quiet middle-class life in
Canada probably like the middle-class
life that and South Africa from my
perspective as a child they were wimps
now of course the reality is my own
parents did not live up to their own
philosophy in any way they were not only
wimps they were very much slaves to the
sensory pleasures they lived lives of
total self-indulgence and it wasn't long
before I came to regard my parents as
really quite childish people quite
dangerously childish people and you know
there's maybe a standard psychological
pattern there where maybe people some
people may tend to idealize the virtues
that are most inaccessible to them its
virtues that are from their own
perspective exotic unattainable hard to
achieve or maintain and some other set
of virtues you know that are easier for
them to practice they may be less likely
to put on a pedestal so some of that was
was going on with who my parents were
in terms of the gap between the precepts
they believed in and and the the life
that actually lived so this is a big
part of the background to my feeling
that vegetarianism and then veganism
were completely inevitable in my life
I've talked in other videos when I've
answered this question before you know
about my interest in ecology in terms of
where I grew up and my engagement these
other things there are many many other
angles I could use you know to reflect
on this but I mean I I do think this is
a really short answer to why I ended up
vegan in terms of the fundamental values
that I chose to take forward from like
my communist upbringing into my post
communist by the way ante communist I'm
not just not kind an active critic I'm
someone who really were Jack's communism
knowing it from the inside
but in my anti-communist adulthood those
are values that were consistent in my
life and again there's nothing
inevitable to some extent of the values
I I fished out or selected out of my
other brothers and sisters my father and
I
kids have a lot of other examples to
look at nobody else seems to have
learned quite the same lessons that I
did I'll just say it still is a
challenge for me to say to people that I
have had a wonderful life or that I
currently am having a wonderful life
it's difficult for me well it's it's
gotten easier just in the last few years
I remember I had kind of a job interview
situation in Kunming it was a job I
didn't take I took a different job
instead yeah and a Hong is there's both
two places in China but I had a sort of
job interview situation and I was
talking to the president of a small
college and she kept saying these things
as if she she felt sorry for me
her English wasn't that good but like oh
she would say I'm sorry you had to do
that I'm sorry that didn't work out for
you and you know a situation may you
know I had a wonderful life I was like
haven't you read my CV haven't you read
my resume and actually she hadn't but
she was talking to me as if I had ended
up on her doorstep applying for this job
you know because my my ship had crashed
into the rocks and sank and I remember I
told her just a few things about what a
wonderful life I'd had and because her
English wasn't very good I had to tell
it in very blunt very simple English so
that might be I mean for any of you
watching this video imagine yourself in
that situation
what if you had to in very simple very
clear English explained to a complete
stranger how wonderful your life is
pinned but you know I said to her you
know I've lived all over the world I
just listed off a few of the places that
lived in France I lived in Cambodia
you know I I've been everywhere I ever
wanted to go you know I sort of briefly
talked about the fact that I did all the
things I wanted to do I studied all
these languages and literature and
politics and history so I know you know
I've had an extraordinary and wonderful
life so I've gotten better at doing that
in just the last couple of years and I
really made it a point actually after we
got back from France on this trip that's
he'll tell people a couple people a
couple friends in my life you know how
wonderful
my one month trip to France was you know
spending time with my daughter and so on
and not to describe that in some kind of
self-sacrificing Man of Sorrows way but
it is true it is still really deep
inside me this sense of wake up every
morning do 200 push-ups on your knuckles
be ready for World War 3 all the time I
mean you know I still don't own a couch
we've set up this apartment as a place
to work
it's all desks and chairs it's a place
for me to study languages for me to hit
the books for me to do push-ups for me
to get work done for us to bake bread
it's just part of studying for a next
career you know that there's no doubt
that there's still that unshakable sense
in me that the you know the unexamined
life is not worth living that the
pleasures this world has to offer are
just something to be scoffed at by any
man of substance and a kind of you know
sincere in comprehension when I look
around me at the other members of my
generation and see how they waste their
lives waste their time waste their
brains with their money
drinking alcohol smoking marijuana
watching football on television playing
video games whatever that they live in a
state of constant dissipation constant
distraction and then they act surprised
when ten years have gone by and they've
accomplished nothing so that is in a
very real sense why I'm vegan I have a
lot of contempt for the things that
other people value in life and I have a
kind of driving ambition an ambition
that's not for earning money and
ambition to pursue the things that I
think are meaningful that I think are
most valuable and that keep me in a
constant state of tense preparation for
a war that we all know is never going to
come